===firstname:
J.
===firstname3:
A.
===lastname2:
Mousseau
===postal:
Los Alamos National Laboratory
Mail Stop D401/EES-2
Los Alamos, NM 87545
===lastname:
Reisner
===lastname3:
Wyszogrodzki
===ABSTRACT:
A numerical framework for simulating hurricanes based
upon solving a nonlinear equation set in a consistent
manner without time splitting is described in this
paper.  The physical model is the Navier-Stokes
equations plus a highly simplified and differentiable
microphysics parameterization package.  Because the
method is fully implicit, the approach is able to
employ time steps that result in
Courant-Friedrichs-Lewy (CFL) numbers greater than one
for advection, gravity, and sound waves; however, the
dynamical time scale of the problem must still be
respected for accuracy.  The physical model is solved
via the Jacobian-Free Newton-Krylov (JFNK) method.  The
JFNK approach typically requires the approximate
solution of a large linear system several times per
time step.  To increase the efficiency of the linear
system solves, a physics-based preconditioner has been
employed.  To quantify the accuracy and efficiency of
the new approach against traditional time-split
approaches, the fully-implicit solver was first
compared against the semi-implicit approach for the
simulation of a precipitating moist bubble.  The
moist-bubble simulations not only demonstrated the
ability of the fully-implicit approach to achieve
second-order accuracy in time, but also the ability of
the fully-implicit approach to achieve a given level of
accuracy in a more efficient manner than traditional
approaches.  This behavior is further illustrated in
first-of-a-kind three-dimensional fully-implicit
hurricane simulations that reveal the semi-implicit
algorithm needs to take a time step at least 60 times
smaller than the fully-implicit algorithm to produce a
comparable change in the intensity of a hurricane.

===email:
reisner@lanl.gov
===otherauths:
Knoll, D.
===title:
A fully-implicit hurricane model with physics-based
preconditioning
===firstname2:
V.
