===firstname:
david, j
===firstname3:

===lastname2:
kay
===postal:
Mathematics Department 
UMIST
PO Box 88
Manchester M60 1QD
UK
===lastname:
silvester
===lastname3:

===ABSTRACT:
Simulation of the motion of an incompressible fluid remains an 
important but very challenging problem. The resources required for
accurate three-dimensional simulation of practical flows test even
the most advanced computer hardware. The necessity for reliable 
and efficient solvers is widely recognised. This talk will focus 
on two components of such a solver: the error control used for
self-adaptive time stepping;  and the linear solver used at each
time level.

Conventional codes typically use semi-implicit time integration 
leading to a Poisson or Stokes-type system at every time step, but
with a stability restriction on the time step.  Our alternative 
approach is  the so-called TR-AB2 "smart integrator" developed by
Gresho in the 1980's. Such fully-implicit methods have no 
restriction on the time step, but have only become feasible in
recent years because of developments in solution techniques for
the linear (or linearized) Oseen systems that arise at each time
level.  To this end, the preconditioning  framework that we have
developed offers the possibility of uniformly fast convergence
independent of the problem parameters (namely; the mesh size, 
the time step and the Reynolds number). (In contrast, conventional
multigrid solvers for this problem tend to work well if the time
step is sufficiently small, but efficiency  deteriorates rapidly
if either the time step or the Reynolds number is increased.) 



===email:
djs@ma.umist.ac.uk
===otherauths:

===title:
Black-box multigrid preconditioning for unsteady incompressible flows
===firstname2:
david
