
<html> <head> <title>cm conference abstract: Li</title> </head>

<body>

<center> On a type of balancing domain decomposition methods for
solving interior Helmholtz equations </center>

<p>
<center>
<a href="mailto: li@math.kent.edu">
Jing Li</a><br><br>
Department of Mathematical Sciences,
Kent State University, Kent, OH 44242<br><br>
Xuemin Tu<br>
Department of Mathematics, University of California, Berkeley, CA
94720-3840<br>
</center>

<p>
<center>
<br>Abstract
</center>

<p>


A variant of balancing domain decomposition methods by constraints
(BDDC) are proposed for solving a class of indefinite system of
linear equations, which arises from the finite element
discretizations of the Helmholtz equation of time-harmonic wave
propagation in a bounded interior domain. The proposed BDDC
algorithm is motivated by the dual-primal finite element tearing and
interconnecting algorithm for solving the time-harmonic wave
propagation problems (FETI-DPH), which was first proposed by Charbel
Farhat and Jing Li (2004). The FETI-DPH method has been shown to be
parallel scalable and has been applied to the simulation of elastic
waves in structural dynamic problem, and to the simulation of sound
waves in acoustic scattering problems. A key component in the
FETI-DPH algorithm, also used in the proposed BDDC algorithm, is
some plane waves incorporated in the coarse level problem to enhance
the convergence rate. These plane waves represent exact solutions of
the partial differential equations in free space. This is an idea
first introduced by Farhat, Macedo, and Lesoinne (2000) in the
FETI-H algorithm for solving the Helmholtz equations.


<p> In the proposed BDDC algorithms, the GMRES iteration is used to
solve the preconditioned indefinite system of linear equations. We
prove that the convergence rate of the GMRES iteration depends
polylogarithmically on the dimension of the individual subdomain
problems, as long as the typical diameter of the subdomains is
sufficiently small. To overcome the difficulty introduced by the
indefiniteness of the problem, we use a perturbation approach, which
was first applied by Cai and Widlund (1992)to analyzing the
overlapping Schwarz algorithm for solving indefinite problems; see
also the work by Gopalakrishnan,  Pasciak, and Demkowicz (2003,
2004) for applications to analyzing overlapping Schwarz algorithms
and multigrid methods for solving time harmonic Maxwell equations.
In our analysis, an error bound for the approximation of the
solution of the Helmholtz equation by a partially sub-assembled
finite element problem is crucial; we view that finite element
problem as a non-conforming approximation of the indefinite problem.
We also establish the spectral equivalence between the proposed BDDC
algorithms and the FETI-DPH algorithms for solving Helmholtz
equations.

</body> </html>
