\documentclass{report}
\usepackage{amsmath,amssymb}
\setlength{\parindent}{0mm}
\setlength{\parskip}{1em}
\begin{document}
\begin{center}
\rule{6in}{1pt} \
{\large David Moulton \\
{\bf Robust and Adaptive Multigrid Methods: comparing structured and algebraic approaches }}

Applied Mathematics and Plasma Physics \\ MS B284 \\ Los Alamos National Laboratory \\ Los Alamos \\ NM 87545
\\
{\tt moulton@lanl.gov}\\
Scott MacLachlan\\
Tim Chartier\end{center}

Although there have been significant advances in robust algebraic
multigrid methods in recent years, numerical studies and emerging
hardware architectures continue to favor structured-grid approaches.
Specifically, implementations of logically structured robust variatoinal
multigrid algorithms, such as the Black Box Multigrid (BoxMG) solver,
have been shown to be 10 times faster than AMG for three-dimensional
heterogeneous diffusion problems on structured grids. BoxMG offers
important features such as operator-induced interpolation for robustness,
while taking advantage of direct data access and bounded complexity in
the Galerkin coarse-grid operator. Moreover, since BoxMG uses a
variational framework, it can be used to explore advances of modern
adaptive AMG approaches in a structured setting. In this work, we show
how to extend the adaptive multigrid methodology to the BoxMG setting.
This extension not only retains the favorable properties of the adaptive
framework, but also sheds light on the relationship between BoxMG and
AMG. In particular, we show how BoxMG can be viewed as a \emph{special
case} of classical AMG, and how this viewpoint leads to a richer family
of adaptive BoxMG approaches.


\end{document}
