===affil2:
CEA/DAM/CESTA
===firstname:
Mathieu
===firstname4:
Jean
===firstname3:
Jean-jacques
===lastname2:
Goudin
===lastname:
Chanaud
===firstname5:

===affil6:

===lastname3:
Pesque
===email:
mathieu.chanaud@inria.fr
===lastname6:

===affil5:

===otherauths:

===lastname4:
Roman
===affil4:
INRIA bordeaux Sud-Ouest 
===lastname7:

===affil7:

===firstname7:

===postal:
INRIA Bordeaux Sud-Ouest,
351 cours de la liberation,
Bat. A29,
33405 Talence CEDEX
France
===firstname6:

===ABSTRACT:
Large 3D electromagnetic problems require high
performance parallel solvers as a huge amount of
processing power and memory are needed.  In this
talk we will present a new parallel solver applied
to time harmonic Maxwell equations discretized by
Nedelec first order finite elements. Considering
large 3D objects simulations, this formulation
leads to large sparse symmetric linear systems
with complex coefficients. Classical iterative
methods do not behave well for this kind of
problems due to ill-conditioned and indefinite
matrices. Moreover, iteratively computed solutions
are not accurate enough to evaluate the object's
radar cross section (RCS). As a consequence,
actual production software rely on PaStiX parallel
direct solver which major drawback resides in
memory consumption.

The aim of the presented method is to manage
problems with hundreds of million unknowns with
both direct method accuracy and iterative method
memory efficiency. The developed solver uses a
full-multigrid and direct method coupling: a
parallel direct factorization-solve (LDL$^T$) is
performed on coarsest level (with a relaxed
edge-wavelength restriction) while fine mesh
solves are carried out by a parallel matrix-free
Jacobi.

As direct solves are performed only on coarsest
level, memory is bounded by the coarse problem
size ($n_c$) and more precisely by the Number of
Non-Zeros ($nnz$) coefficients in the factorized
matrix. Besides this relatively low memory
consumption, coarse linear system remains the same
all along the resolution where multiple coarse
solves are required. As a result, the
factorization may be computed once ($O({n_c}^2)$
flops), and reused each time a coarse solve occurs
($O(nnz)$ flops). On the other hand, we choose a
matrix-free method for fine solves that do not
require any storage, except for solution and right
hand side vectors ($O(n_f)$).

In order to obtain a scalable parallel solver,
both load and communication must be balanced. As
classical direct solver, PaStiX preprocessing step
consists in renumbering unknowns and mapping them
over processors reducing communication. Regarding
fine level solves, this coarse distribution may be
useful: using an homogeneous refinement step, both
load balance and communication scheme are
preserved. The whole method is then fully driven
by the direct method.

Results obtained on simple material problems show
that this method works and gives good quality
solution. On the other hand, problems involving
complex materials lead to low accuracy
solution. Using this same method as a
preconditioner of a parallel matrix free conjugate
gradient show good results in terms of memory
consumption and accuracy. Moreover, this
Preconditioned Conjugate Gradient leads to a very
fast convergence.

===affil3:
CEA/DAM/CESTA
===lastname5:

===affilother:

===title:
Parallel hybrid multigrid-direct solver applied to large 3D electromagnetism problems. 
===firstname2:
David
