\documentclass{report}
\usepackage{amsmath,amssymb}
\setlength{\parindent}{0mm}
\setlength{\parskip}{1em}
\begin{document}
\begin{center}

\rule{6in}{1pt} \
{\large
Luke Olson
\\ {\bf
Algebraic Multigrid (AMG) for Higher-Order Finite Elements
}}

Division of Applied Mathematics \\
Brown University
\\ {\tt
lolson@dam.brown.edu
}
\\
Jeff Heys,
Tom Manteuffel,
Steve McCormick
\end{center}


Abstract

In this talk we consider two related approaches for solving linear
systems that arise from a higher-order finite element discretization of
elliptic partial differential equations. The first approach explores
direct application of an algebraic-based multigrid method (AMG) to
iteratively solve the linear systems that result from higher-order
discretizations. While the choice of basis used on the discretization
has a significant impact on the performance of the solver, results
indicate that AMG is capable of solving operators from both Poisson's
equation and a first-order system least-squares (FOSLS) formulation of
Stoke's equation in a scalable manner, nearly independent of basis
order, $p$. The second approach incorporates preconditioning based on a
bilinear finite element mesh overlaying the entire set of degrees of
freedom in the higher-order scheme. AMG is applied to the operator
based on the bilinear finite element discretization and is used as a
preconditioner in a conjugate gradient (CG) iteration to solve the
algebraic system derived from the high-order discretization. This
approach is also nearly independent of $p$. We present several numerical
examples that support each method and discuss the computational
advantages of the preconditioning implementation. 

\end{document}
